# leaflet_challenge

In this challenge, the task was to develop a way to visualize United States Geological Survey (USGS) earthquake data to better educate the public and other government organizations. A new set of tools was needed to display the massive amount of data on earthquakes collected throughout the world each day.

The first step was to visit the USGS GeoJSON page, and from there to select a dataset. Once the dataset was selected, then it was imported and visualized, using Leaflet. A map was plotted of all the earthquakes from the dataset based on their longitude and latitude. Data markers were made to reflect the magnitude of the earthquake by their size and the depth of the earthquake by color. Earthquakes with higher magnitudes were made to appear in larger markers, and earthquakes with greater depth in darker color. Popups were also added to provide additional information about the earthquake when its associated marker is clicked. And a legend was included as well to provide context for map data.

I was particularly interested in how many significant earthquakes had occurred in just the last week and accordingly selected the dataset for M4.5+ earthquakes in the last 7 days. With the URL for it, a base map was then established using L.tile layer, and the dataset through the URL was called with d3.json. From there, a sequence of three functions were made for markers to be placed on the map where earthquakes had occurred. The first function addressed the style of the markers, and the other two functions the marker sizes and colors according to earthquake magnitudes and depths, respectively. A legend was also added, as were popups on the markers to detail each earthquake's location, time of occurrence, and magnitude and depth.

Observation of the results revealed that in the last 7 days, there have been 89 earthquakes throughout the world registering M4.5+. A heavy concentration of them is immediately seen in the western pacific region, stretching from Russia down to the Fiji Islands. And it is in the southwestern region, in particular, where the earthquake with the highest magnitude occurred. That was in Sarangani, Philippines on 1/8/24 with a magnitude of 6.7. Sarangani has also experienced two other earthquakes in the same time period. And still three other earthquakes have occurred in the Philippines altogether, making it the most-active area in its region.

Another concentration also appears in South America (Peru, Chile, Argentina, and Ecuador). In fact, earthquakes of the greatest depths have recently been concentrated in South America, notably the area of Abra Pampa, Argentina. Two earthquakes have occurred there, one on 1/8/24 at a depth of 263.18 km (magnitude, 4.5), and another the next day at a depth of 256.172 km (magnitude, 4.7).

The use of Leaflet with JSON makes this kind of analysis possible, reading the data collected by the USGS and then visualizing it for quick observation and identification of areas for further inquiry.